Alright, in this video what we want to
do is look at editing an existing
ingredient. Now the problem that we have in
ingredients are the challenge that we
have to look at is the ingredients have
a nested unit of measure property. So just to
refresh you on the model here. So if we
look at the commands, so we'll have a
UnitOfMeasureCommand. That's going to
be related to the Ingredient same as far
as our domain model. So we have a nested
object there and it's a one-to-one
relationship and we set it up so that we
could select from it. So we can go into
the database at a future date and add in
different unit of measures but we want
to be able to pick out which one we want. So we're going to use a drop-down
selector for that and show you real
quick here, we'll pop that open. And you
can see that this is basically what we want
to do. This have description and the unit
of measure on that and so we all have
those properties there. Actually I just
saw that we actually want to have
quantity too or amount. So let's add that
in real quick. So I'll call that amount
and we'll give it a number and we'll bind
it now to a field amount. So now that will
work out nicely for us. But the area
that we really want to look at is on line
47 there. 47 to 51. So this is
going to set up our option drop down in
the HTML form and this is Thymeleaf from
what it's saying is we want to pass back
a uom list to that and for each unit of
measure, we're going to give you the
value of the ID so that we know which
one to get back to. But then there on
line 58 we're doing an equals. So uomEach
equals and we're going to say equal to
the ingredient uom. So as long as those
two are equal, we're going to be happy. And then we'll display it as the
description of the unit of measure. So what we need to do now is we've been
passing back the property of any
IngredientCommand. Over the
second list, so neck the second
property value assigned to our model
coming back. So I'll show you that in the
IngredientController where we've
implemented this. So when we do an update
we're going to have a property called uom
List and now we've implemented a unit of
measure service to go out and list all
uom's. So let's take a quick look at
that implementation. So this is something
I just added for this so we have a new
that can return back a Set of the unit
measure commands and we've list all UOM's. So we'll go into this. It's a pretty
simple of operation. We go to go
out, we get a UnitOfMeasureRepository
injected for us by Spring and also a
UnitOfMeasureToUnitOfMeasureCommand
converter injected for us and we
returned back recent stream
support. So it's a convenient way to swap
a iterator to something that we can
stream against so we're going to say
findAll and this is going to
spliterator, I'm not sure who came up
with that word, but spliterator
which will give us a Java stream, a Java
eight stream and then we're going to use
a map function to convert our domain
objects to our command objects and we'll
collect them into a set and return that. So let's go ahead and look at the unit
test that we wrote for this and we can
see that I set up a pretty simple test.
I'm going to go out and list all uom so I
create the UOMs as our
domain object. I can say I'm setting up a set of those in
the given block from 35 to 43. And then I
set up the Mockito mock to return them
back and now we go out and we get our
list of command objects and pretty
simple test here. I'm going to go ahead
and run it. So you can see it run without
going kaboom which is always a plus. So our unit test does run in fact. Let's
go ahead and take a closer look at
the controller implementation. This is where our
controller implementation and also,
this is the same method that we had
before the findByRecipeIdAndIngredientId. So that's
the same. No changes there. See now the
one thing that we do need to look at is
this save method. So this is a little
more involved. So we just looked at the
controller method that is going to
display the form. So now we need to
save that back so I'm in the service
layer looking at the service method
that's going to be used to take that
ingredient form, that command object back
from the controller and then persist it. So this gets a little tricky because
what we're dealing with as far as having
a detached entity. So I got to
be a little careful with that and let's
see. I'll step through this that would go
through. We get a recipe Optional there
on line 64 and now we can have logic in
there in line 66 to 68 to log of warning
and we return back a recipe not found. So
we log that. So this this is happy
path. So if we don't find that ID this is
just going to blow right through there. So we'll be addressing this in
the future. I shall even put that in
there. So I definitely want to blow up if
if we're trying to
do an update on something that does not
exist. Now we're going to go out and get the recipe there. So on line 72 we start
with the path where the Optional does
have a value. Now we're going to go out
and look for that ingredient value
that's already been assigned because
remember this is a save or update
operation. We don't necessarily know
which one's coming through
here. So we might be creating a new
ingredient or we might not be. So now in
line 80, we say is that ingredient
optional there? And then we we go in and
we update it and actually need to update
the quantity too. So I missed a property
there and now we're going to go also
out and set up the uom. So we're going to
go back and set the uom based on the ID
value and right now, we don't have very
elegant handling in there. So that's
another spot that we'd want to do
something a little more elegant. Again
we're just doing happy path right now so
this is kind of fragile code but we're
just trying to learn things right now
and get something that's functional. So
we go through there and it becomes a lot
easier if we're adding a new recipe. So
you can see there on line 87, this is
our new ingredient. I have a spoken, this is
our new ingredient, not recipe. So that's
going to go in and add in that
ingredient and then we'll go ahead and
save the recipe object that will persist
it with Hibernate. And now we want to
return back that command. So we'll return
back the command object. So let's go
ahead and take a look at the test for
this now. Scroll down to that and you can
see in here. I grabbed the wrong one. You can see
I have a test save recipe command. Again,
this goes out. I'm following the behavior
driven development pattern. I've given one
then. So I set up my data and a little
given comment block and also set up
Mockito.
Some people like to set up Mockito
in the when block. It's kind of a gray area
technically because you are setting up
the mock actions to react to the when of
the test action or the action under test. So in this scenario I do have
line 103. That is the action that I'm
testing of when I go and save that
IngredientCommand and then 105 is the
actual events that I expect to verify from
that test. So go ahead and run this test. Make sure that is happy so that is
up and good. Let's go ahead and take a
look at the controller test. We do have
two new tests there. Just as a reminder,
we have the first one there in line 79
where we're going to be doing a get for
the form. You can see that we're doing a
get out there in line 88 against that
URL and then we're expecting these
interactions to happen based on the
Model from the controller. And then again,
on, I'll actually run this one right
now. While that's running we'll talk
about the other one. We have the testSaveOrUpdate. Similar function but now we
can see that we are doing a post and
again, these are just pure unit tests. We
are not bringing up the Spring contest. So that's why it runs so quickly for us.
So let's go ahead and run all our tests
now make sure that we are still in the
green across the board. You can see that
our test suite is steadily growing as we
add functionality, we're adding tests and
mostly unit tests. So let's go ahead and
bring up the Spring Boot application and
take a look at this in the browser. So
Spring Boot is up and running. We'll
refresh this.
You can see here that we have the
Perfect Guacamole. And go for some
guacamole, I'm hungry.
So now we have our list and
let's take a look at the avocados and
we'll edit those and we'll just say yum
there and let's make this each and you would see that we have two of them but
everything else. Nevermind, that's good. So now we have two each
avocados yum. And if we go back here to
ingredients, now we can see two each
avocados yum and we are getting a show
there. That looks like some problem with our
form. I'm going to pause this and look at it real
quick. Yup, we can see the problem
right here. That little String should not be there
so that was an accidental addition when I was
coding this up. Now it should be like so. So
this whole thing here the Thymeleaf was
getting evaluated as an expression and I
was actually tagging on it. I'll put that show
in the wrong spot. I think that's when
I'm staring it too much HTML so let's
take a look at that. It did not go yet.
Sometimes if we go build a project that
will force the reload of the template
and now we can see that that slash show
is now gone. I'll just do it. Let's see if we can update
this to three yummy
avocados and it looks like that each may
not have taken.
That is good. So we are getting each but
when we do an update, that is not working
properly. View page source, see what's
happening here. I'm not getting the
selected value. I think and know exactly
what that is. So let's take a quick look
at that. So on the form,
you know on each dot. So now we're going
to specify the ID value in here. I think
it's because we're doing against the
two uom's that was not happy. I'm going to
go ahead and build this and let's take..
So now we are getting each there. Let's
double check the page source.
I should have a selected value and yes,
this is exactly what we wanted because
that select was not working, that equal
evaluation was not working, that selected
value was not working on the HTML that
is being generated by Thymeleaf. So just a
recap on that in case you got confused. Right here I had a mistake in the
evaluation that was not comparing against
the ID values. So the equality
comparison was failing and we were
failing to get the selected attribute. So
it was a problem of the form and not our
persistence.